Now of course when there is invalid data entered into our inputs we might want to do more than just
color the border.
The border at the bottom you're red.
Maybe we all have one eye color to label a red and maybe you also want to show a little error message.
And that is absolutely possible and something you can do.
For your own error or styles for the labels.
Just keep in mind that when you do have invalid input here on the eye an item you get the eye an invalid
enzyme on classes so you can use these classes to color the label which is inside of the item appropriately.
So we could set up that styling now and our off page SPSS file.
But maybe we want to have that styling application wide.
Therefore all will go to the global SPSS file and they are all add a new rule that if we have to iron
invalid class and the ion touch class that any I label that is nested inside of a component that has
these two classes on it will receive a color a text color therefore which is using our ion color danger
color.
So it is variable here.
If we have a look at the variables real quick there will see that we have our eye and color danger variable
here which should be red.
So now we assign that variables color to the text color of I label instead of a component that has I
an invalid an eye and touched on it
so that for now if I click in there this label laws becomes red.
As soon as I'm done touching or working with this input.
So this looks now good.
Now also we can show an error message and for this you simply go into your off page again.
And all we now need is we need to find out whether a given input is invalid or not.
And the easiest way of doing that is to assign a local reference to it here for example email control
whatever you want to use and that should also be holding a value here and that value should be energy
model.
So up here we had energy forum to get access to the form angular created for us with energy model assigned
here.
We get access to the form control angular created for us.
And this has certain fields like the current value but also the current validity.
And for that here we could add a paragraph where we say should be a valid email address and that should
only show up if d My address is invalid.
So at N.G. if and check if not email control using that local reference here email control is valid
and email control touched so it should should have been touched the user should have had a chance of
entering something there.
Now when we save that and our application reloads we see nothing year but if I click in there and out
of there.
Now we get that should be a valid e-mail address but of course the positioning is not really that great.
Right it's inside of the input now and that is simply related to the fact how I an item and I label
and I an input work together.
It works better if we simply put that into its own eye an item here and at the end have directive on
the item therefore like this
now if you click in there and out of there we got this little output here.
Now I'm not a fan of getting that line below that though.
So they offer all take advantage of a little attribute I can set on an item I can set lines here to
non soda.
This item will not render any visual line and therefore it will just output that text without any lines.
And this is now a way better style obviously we can now all replace the paragraph here with a label
that is not a mask.
You could have capped the paragraph but I actually don't need the extra margins added by the paragraph.
I think it looks a bit nicer if it's just I and label and we take up less space.
Now let's do the same for the password and of course feel free to do that on your own I will simply
grab my eye an item here.
Copy that.
An added below that item forward a password and then all the password.
Assign a password control local reference which points that energy model to get access to D created
form control.
Then here we can replace email control with password control like that and their one output should at
least be six characters long.
Or whichever message you want to show.
So now we have our validation in place here.
Last but not least let's disable to log in button if we are in an invalid state and therefore on this
button on the log and button we can bind the disabled attribute and we want a disabled is when the form
is invalid so we can use our f local reference which remember refers to the overall form and we use
that local reference to check whether it is valid and if it's not valid then I want a disabled button.
So this is my condition here and it will not watch for the user attaching anything I will just make
sure if it's not valid despite this disabled done and therefore now we start with a disabled button
which has this nice disabled look and can be clicked.
Awesome.
So if that were almost done.
Let's now make sure we correctly extract the data when the form is submitted.
And of course make sure that we actually can toggle between log in and sign up.